this lecture is about that late indeed
originated education or Lda in this
lecture we're going to continue talking
about topic models in particular we're
going to talk about some exchanging of
PRSA and one of them is LD a or letting
the duration to a location so the plan
for this lecture is to cover two things
one is to extend the PRSA with prior
knowledge that would allow us to have in
sometimes a user controlled PRSA so it
isn't applying they just listen to data
but also would listen to our needs
the second is to extend the PRSA as a
generative model afford a generative
model this has led to the development of
leighton is directly related education
or Lda so first let's talk about the PRA
with prior knowledge now in practice
when we apply it here is a to analyze
text later we might have additional
knowledge that we want to inject to
guide the analysis the standard PRSA is
going to blind and listen to the data by
using maximum likelihood estimator we're
going to adjust a fitted data as much as
we can and get some insight about data
this is also very useful but sometimes a
user might have some expectations about
Wichita P this will analyze for example
we might expect to see in retrieval
models as a topical information
retrieval we also may be interested in
certain aspects such as battery and
memory when looking at the opinions
about the laptop because the user is
particularly interested in these aspects
now user may also have knowledge about
the topic coverage and we may know which
topic is definitely not covered in which
document or is covered in the document
for example we might have seen those
tags topical tags assigned to documents
and those tags could be treated as
topics if we do that then a document
that can only be generated using topics
corresponding to the tanks already
assigned it to the doc
if the document is not assigned a tab
we're going to say there's no way for
using that topical to generate the
document the document must be generated
by using the topics corresponding to the
assigned the tags so the question is how
can we incorporate the such technology
into PRSA it turns out that there's a
very elegant way of doing that and
that's to incorporate the technology as
priors on the models and you may recall
in Bayesian inference we use prior
together with data to estimate
parameters and this is precisely what
will happen so in this case we can use
maximum a posteriori estimate also
called map estimate and the formula is
given here basically to maximize the
posterior distribution probability and
this is the combination of the
likelihood of data and the prior so what
would happen is that we're going to have
a estimated that this is to the data and
also listens to our prior preferences we
can use this prior which is denoted as P
of lambda to encode all kinds of
preferences and the constraints so for
example we can use this to encode the
need of having precisely one background
the topical now this can be encoded as a
prior because we can say the prior for
the parameters is only a nonzero if the
pram does contain one topic that that's
equivalent to the background language
model in other words in other cases if
it's not like that we're going to say
the prior says it's impossible so the
probability of that kind of model
setting would be zero according to our
prior so now we can also for example use
the prior to force particular choice of
topical to have a probability of a
certain number for example we can force
the document to choose topical one with
probability of one half or we can
prevent a copter from being used in
generator document so we can say the
third topic should not be used and
regenerate the document D and we set to
the pie-mary to zero for that topic we
can also use the prior to favor set of
parameters with topics that assign high
probabilities to some particular words
in this case we are not going to say
it's impossible but we're going to just
as strongly favor certain kind of
distributions and you'll see example
later the map can be computed using a
similar yammer algorithm as we have used
for the maximum likelihood estimator
with just some modification to smooth
the parameters reflect the prior
preferences and in such your estimator
if we use a special form of the prior
called a conjugate prior then the
functional form of the prior will be
similar to the data as a result we can
combine the two and the consequence is
that you can basically convert the
influence of the prior into the
influence of having additional student
data because the two functional forms
are the same and they can be combined so
the effect is as if we had more data and
this is convenient for computation it
doesn't mean conjugate prior is the best
way to define prior so now let's look at
the specific example suppose the user is
particularly interested in better life
of a laptop and we're analyzing reviews
so the prior says that the distribution
should contain one distribution that
would assign high probabilities to a
battery and life so we could do say well
there is a distribution that in kinda
consider on better life and we our
priors is that the one of your
distributions which should be very
similar to this now if we use map
estimator
M with the conjugate prior which is
dirigida prior the original distribution
based on this is preference then the
only difference in the EM algorithm is
in the end stack when we reached mate
world distributions we are going to add
additional counts
to reflect our prior right so here you
can see the sudo comes are defined based
on the probability of words in our prior
so battery obviously we have a high
student counts similarly at life but
they have also high silver comes all the
other words we have zero single counts
because their probability is zero in the
prior and when you see this is also
controlled by a parameter mu and we're
going to add mu multiplied by the
probability of W given our prior
distribution to the connected accounts
when we estimate the when we estimated
this word distribution right so this is
the only step that's changing and the
changing happening here and before we
just correct the counts of words that we
believe have been generated from this
topic but now we force this distribution
to give more probabilities to these
words by adding them to the pseudo
counts so to artificially in the fact
that we artificially inflated their
probabilities you need to make this
distribution we also need to add this
many student counts to the denominator
this is a total sum of all the pseudo
counts we have added for all the words
this would make this again a
distribution now this is a intuitively
very reasonable way of modifying eeehm
algorithm and theoretical speaking this
the works and in the computer the map
estimator it's useful to think about two
specific extreme cases of new now can't
in the picture think about what would
happen if we set beautifully row well
that's a failure to remove this prior so
mu in some sense indicates our strengths
on prior now what would happen if we set
view to positive infinity well that's to
say this prior is so strong that we're
not going to listen to the data at all
so in the end you can see in this case
we're going to make one distribution
fixed to the prior you see why when you
is infinity we basically let this one
dominate in fact we're going to set this
one to precise this distribution so in
this case it is this distribution and
that's why we said the background
language model is in fact a way to
impose a prior because with false ones
it's routine to be exactly the same as
what we give that's the background is
religion so in this case we can't even
force the distribution to entire it
focus on better life but of course this
won't work well because it cannot
attract the other words it would affect
the accuracy of counting topics about
the battery life so in practice movies
step somewhere in between of course so
this is one way to impose our prior and
we can also impose some other
constraints for example we can set any
parameters for constant including zero
as needed for example we may want to set
a one of the PI's to 0 and this would
mean we don't allow that topic to
participate in generating at that
document and this is only reasonable of
course when we have prior knowledge II
that strongly suggest this